I think stairs may be one of the most
emotionally malleable physical elements
that an architect has to work with at
its most basic a stair is a way to get
from point A to point B at different
elevations stairs have a common language
treads which is the thing that you walk
on riser which is the vertical element
that separates the two treads a lot of
stairs have no Zing's that create a kind
of edge and then the connected piece is
a stringer those pieces in different
forms make up all stairs I assume stairs
came to be from the first time someone
said I want to get to this higher rock
from the lower rock people climbed using
whatever was available stepped logs
ladders and natural pathways that were
worn over time some of the earliest
staircases like the pyramids in Chichen
Itza
or the roads to mount I in China where a
means of getting to a higher elevation
with people sought for worship or for
protection his engineering has evolved
so has what's practical stairs can be
made from all kinds of material there
are linear stairs or a spiral stairs
stairs can be indoors they can be
outdoors they clearly help us in an
emergency but they are also a form of
art in and of themselves as we move
across a stairway the form dictates our
pacing our feeling our safety and our
relationship and engagement with the
space around us so for a second think
about stepping down a gradual monumental
staircase like the one in front of the
New York Public Library from those steps
you have a view of the street and all
the people around you and your walk is
slow and steady because the tread is so
wide that's a totally different
experience than going down the narrow
staircase to say an old pub where you
spill into the room there you encounter
tall risers so you move more quickly
stairs add enormous drama think about
how stair
signal the grand entrance and where the
star of that moment stairs can even be
heroic the staircase that remains
standing after September 11th and the
attack on the World Trade Center was
dubbed the survivor staircase because it
played such a central role in leading
hundreds of people to safety but small
stairs can have a huge impact to the
stoop is a place that invites neighbors
to gather last music and watch the city
in motion fascinating to me that you see
people wanting to hang out on the stairs
I think they fill it a deeply human need
we have to inhabit a space more than
just on the ground plane and so if
you're able to sit halfway up there
you're in a kind of magical place
[Music]